[Music]
I'm actually going to be discovering
exactly what it's like to have a water
birth being a bit of a demonstration
this morning I have got midwife expert
here with me Angela wake fir'd she
actually deals good morning she actually
deals with water births itself and is
gonna be taking me through the process
so if it's something that you as a
mother
as you're wanting to do something like
this well you never know it might just
be the option for you now firstly Angela
a question to you before I step into my
pool party over here why exactly would
one choose a water birth it enhances
natural birthing water is very relaxing
so it means that your body works more
effectively and so it makes the labor
quicker and less painful okay so I think
the next step is we're actually going to
have me getting in this pool right now
and experiencing a bit of a demo I hope
I am NOT going to be tempting fate as
Graham said earlier on so let's just
take a look and see if you can keep to
the mat for me Angela all right
oh my nerves get on all get in the pool
okay hey then you sit right down in the
bottom okay so I'm gonna take off my er
I'm gonna take off my caftan right now
so if you can help me with this wiki all
right okay and I think it's a bit okay
you got it over there alright so I'm in
the pool right now the first feeling
that I'm getting is it's feeling very
relaxing calming soothing the water is
absolutely awesome so take us through
the actual process once the mother has
gotten into the book the bond right in
terms of safety I would be regulating
the temperature of the pool like using
it water thermometer okay so she's just
plunked a water thermometer inside the
pool right now usually that's the dads
responsibility and make them into charge
of keeping the water the right tone dere
we go I see also you've got a beer
cupholders it for all dads if you are
wanting to to chill out a bit we've got
a nice little cup holder over here for
your beers or at it's all good and that
comes to see what about here
unfortunately I'm wearing trousers I
don't have a bikini animals get to join
you I can't
believe I'm in a bikini on national TV
back anyway the next part of the
birthing process is Angela right will
keeping the baby safe from still monitor
the baby's heartbeat while you in the
pool I have an underwater okay and
monitor so I would fight with the baby's
heart and this is actually what one
calls calls a toddler okay it's about
the baby drowning because I'm sure a lot
of moms are worried about the whole
process babies have a dive reflex would
you prevents them from breathing
underwater so soon as a baby is born
mm-hm snow I'm like oh cool this is not
a day every baby right babies born with
a baby up and mom holds baby someone
holds baby and we're all very very close
I've heard friendly teenagers and kids
no chance of baby drowning I don't know
if a baby is showing two signs of a
distress we would get the mom out of the
pool that's the only time that it is
dangerous
and for moms this whole process no
danger to moms no and was it in terms of
medication Angela you know do I have the
option of using medication or is it even
necessary when something is so lovely as
a water birth no usually mums don't find
that they need pain relief because the
water helps them if they did said then
want an epidural you'd need to get out
of the pool obviously okay yes that
would be sort of crux time now you
obviously with the Doppler at the moment
swinging at your khakis I might catch
you use all these thank you Lisa you are
a friend to the end I never know I'm not
just getting vital to the bed okay I
might be zl-- in the pool you never know
in a hospice twosome okay so Angela they
are you gonna check for the baby's
heartbeat right now okay so what do we
do find with the right position okay and
then I switch it on is that guy's neck
catch useless okay oh wait he's been at
my station behind yeah yeah that is
kitch uses heartbeat kids babies I don't
know
it is Marty 136 beats per minute
yes that normal you've got a healthy
little baby girl very very strong there
we go I can't believe it that's over
ladies amazing live on expressive use of
the hearing and seeing it here first
little baby Oh strong hot pizza heaven
deity that's amazing okay normally we'd
have the water much higher yes we don't
have time to fill it at that time yeah
so that actually you can move around and
find the right position and the water
supports you so it is this your body to
use gravity for for easy birthing Angela
Kia thank you so much geo came to me in
a bikini and had use all for making your
first appearance on national city lines
Angela great having you on the show yes
what's an unusal will look like
stay with expresso and is ABC 3
[Music]